Liquidityd Client CLI Documentation QA (#234)
tendermint/liquidity: README.md

  swap        Swap offer coin with demand coin from the liquidity pool with the given order price
  withdraw    Withdraw pool coin from the specified liquidity pool
```

### Queries

`$ liquidityd query liquidity --help`

```bash
Querying commands for the liquidity module

Usage:
  liquidityd query liquidity [flags]
  liquidityd query liquidity [command]

Available Commands:
  batch       Query details of a liquidity pool batch
  deposit     Query the deposit messages on the liquidity pool batch
  deposits    Query all deposit messages of the liquidity pool batch
  params      Query the values set as liquidity parameters
  pool        Query details of a liquidity pool
  pools       Query for all liquidity pools
  swap        Query for the swap message on the batch of the liquidity pool specified pool-id and msg-index
  swaps       Query all swap messages in the liquidity pool batch
  withdraw    Query the withdraw messages in the liquidity pool batch
  withdraws   Query for all withdraw messages on the liquidity pool batch
```

#### A detailed document on client can be found here. [client.md](doc/client.md)

## Development

### Test
```bash 
$ make test-all
```

> ### 1. Setup local testnet using script

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 1. Automatically to set up a local testnet
```

```bash

> # This will bootstrap a single testnet locally.
> # Note that config, data, and keys are created inside 
> # ./data/localnet folder and RPC, GRPC, REST ports are all open.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# This script bootstraps a single local testnet.
# Note that config, data, and keys are created in the 
# ./data/localnet folder and RPC, GRPC, and REST ports are all open.
```

$ make localnet
```

> ### 1.1 Broadcast transactions using CLI commands

Reviewer: using "CLI commands"? or using scripts that issue CLI commands?

> Some sample scripts are available in [scripts](https://github.com/tendermint/liquidity/tree/develop/scripts) folder, which will help you to test out the liquidity module interface.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sample scripts are provided in the [scripts](https://github.com/tendermint/liquidity/tree/develop/scripts) folder. Use the scripts to use and test the liquidity module interface.
```

> ### 2. Setup local testnet manually

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 2. Manually set up a local testnet
```

Reviewer: Is there a reason why someone would NOT want to use the `make test-all` script? if there is, we should provide that information, otherwise, why would anyone want to do all of this work manually?

liquidityd gentx validator 1000000000stake --chain-id testing --keyring-backend test
liquidityd collect-gentxs

# Start
liquidityd start
```

### 2.1 Broadcast transactions using CLI commands

```bash
# An example of creating liquidity pool 1
liquidityd tx liquidity create-pool 1 1000000000uatom,50000000000uusd --from user1 --keyring-backend test --chain-id testing -y

# An example of creating liquidity pool 2 
liquidityd tx liquidity create-pool 1 10000000stake,10000000uusd --from validator --keyring-backend test --chain-id testing -y

# An example of requesting swap 
liquidityd tx liquidity swap 1 1 50000000uusd uatom 0.019 0.003 --from validator --chain-id testing --keyring-backend test -y

# An example of generating unsigned tx
validator=$(liquidityd keys show validator --keyring-backend test -a)
liquidityd tx liquidity swap 1 1 50000000uusd uatom 0.019 0.003 --from $validator --chain-id testing --generate-only > tx_swap.json
cat tx_swap.json

# Sign the unsigned tx
liquidityd tx sign tx_swap.json --from validator --chain-id testing --keyring-backend test -y > tx_swap_signed.json
cat tx_swap_signed.json

# Encode the signed tx
liquidityd tx encode tx_swap_signed.json
```

> ### 2.2 Broadcaste transactions using REST APIs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 2.2 Broadcast transactions using REST APIs
```

> An example of broadcasting transactions using REST API (via gRPC-gateway) can be found in this [link](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/master/docs/migrations/rest.md#migrating-to-new-rest-endpoints). Note that API server should be enabled in `$HOME/.liquidityapp/config/app.toml` to test this.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For examples of broadcasting transactions using REST API using gRPC-gateway, see the [Migrating to new REST Endpoints](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/master/docs/migrations/rest.md#migrating-to-new-rest-endpoints) doc. 
API server must be enabled in `$HOME/.liquidityapp/config/app.toml`.
```

```bash
curl --header "Content-Type: application/json" --request POST --data '{"tx_bytes":"Cp0BCpoBCigvdGVuZGVybWludC5saXF1aWRpdHkuTXNnU3dhcFdpdGhpbkJhdGNoEm4KLWNvc21vczE4cWM2ZGwwNDZ1a3V0MjN3NnF1dndmenBmeWhncDJmeHFkcXAwNhACGAEiEAoEdXVzZBIINTAwMDAwMDAqBXVhdG9tMg0KBHV1c2QSBTc1MDAwOhExOTAwMDAwMDAwMDAwMDAwMBJYClAKRgofL2Nvc21vcy5jcnlwdG8uc2VjcDI1NmsxLlB1YktleRIjCiEDsouFptHWGniIBzFrsE26PcfH950qjnf4RaEsd+g2fA0SBAoCCH8YAxIEEMCaDBpAOI3k8fay9TziZbl+eNCqmPEF7tWXua3ad0ldNR6XOgZjKRBP9sQSxCtaRFnqc6Avep9C4Rjt+CHDahRNpZ8u3A==","mode":1}' localhost:1317/cosmos/tx/v1beta1/txs
```

### 2.3 Export Genesis State

`$ liquidityd export`

> ### export empty state case

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Export empty state case
```

```json
{
  "liquidity": {
    "params": {
      "init_pool_coin_mint_amount": "1000000",
      "pool_creation_fee": [
        {
          "amount": "100000000",
          "denom": "stake"
        }
      ],
      "max_order_amount_ratio": "0.100000000000000000",
      "min_init_deposit_amount": "1000000",
      "pool_types": [
        {
          "description": "",
          "id": 1,
          "max_reserve_coin_num": 2,
          "min_reserve_coin_num": 2,
          "name": "DefaultPoolType"
        }
      ],
      "max_reserve_coin_amount": "0",
      "swap_fee_rate": "0.003000000000000000",
      "unit_batch_height": 1,
      "withdraw_fee_rate": "0.003000000000000000"
    },
    "pool_records": []
  }
}
```

> ### export when some states exist

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Export when some states exist
```

        "pool": {
          "id": "2",
          "pool_coin_denom": "poolA4648A10F8D43B8EE4D915A35CB292618215D9F60CE3E2E29216489CF1FAE049",
          "reserve_account_address": "cosmos153jg5y8c6sacaexezk34ev5jvxpptk0kscrx0x",
          "reserve_coin_denoms": [
            "stake",
            "uusd"
          ],
          "type_id": 1
        },
        "pool_batch": {
          "begin_height": "0",
          "deposit_msg_index": "1",
          "executed": false,
          "index": "1",
          "pool_id": "2",
          "swap_msg_index": "1",
          "withdraw_msg_index": "1"
        },
        "pool_metadata": {
          "pool_coin_total_supply": {
            "amount": "1000000",
            "denom": "poolA4648A10F8D43B8EE4D915A35CB292618215D9F60CE3E2E29216489CF1FAE049"
          },
          "pool_id": "2",
          "reserve_coins": [
            {
              "amount": "10000000",
              "denom": "stake"
            },
            {
              "amount": "10000000",
              "denom": "uusd"
            }
          ]
        },
        "swap_msg_states": [],
        "withdraw_msg_states": []
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

### Protobuf and Swagger

> The API documentation for the liquidity module can be found on `http://localhost:1317/swagger-liquidity/` when you successfully boostrap your testnet in your local computer. Note that `swagger` config should be `true` in `$HOME/.liquidityapp/config/app.toml`. 
> You can also reference our [public swagger API documentation](https://app.swaggerhub.com/apis-docs/bharvest/cosmos-sdk_liquidity_module_rest_and_g_rpc_gateway_docs). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The API documentation for the liquidity module is available on `http://localhost:1317/swagger-liquidity/` after you successfully boostrap a testnet in your local computer. 

Note that `swagger` config must be `true` in `$HOME/.liquidityapp/config/app.toml`. 
The public Swagger API docs are also available on [Cosmos SDK Liquidity Module - REST and gRPC Gateway docs](https://app.swaggerhub.com/apis-docs/bharvest/cosmos-sdk_liquidity_module_rest_and_g_rpc_gateway_docs). 
```

Reviewer: Tip: it's handy to use self describing links, per https://developers.google.com/style/link-text

[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/tendermint/liquidity/branch/develop/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/tendermint/liquidity?branch=develop)
[![PkgGoDev](https://pkg.go.dev/badge/github.com/tendermint/liquidity)](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/tendermint/liquidity)

# Liquidity Module

> The liquidity module serves AMM (Automated Market Makers) style decentralized liquidity providing and coin swap functions.

Reviewer 2: That's valid point. Let's use singular since it refers to the liquidity module (single).

The module enables users to create a liquidity pool, make deposits and withdrawals, and request coin swaps from the liquidity pool.

This module will be used in the [Cosmos Hub](https://hub.cosmos.network/main/hub-overview/overview.html), and it can be used in any other [Cosmos SDK](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk) based blockchain projects.

> - The Cosmos Hub AMM should have strong philosophy of inclusiveness of users from different blockchains because its prime utility is inter-blockchain communication.

Reviewer: @SenorMonito only after updating some of this README did I notice that other Cosmos SDK modules do not have a README. I'll apply these edits in the other docs. 
(and hi!)

> - The Cosmos Hub AMM should have strong philosophy of inclusiveness of users from different blockchains because its prime utility is inter-blockchain communication.

Reviewer 2: As of now, I think `README.md` file should be where it is supposed to be because it is the file that explains what this repository is all about when people come into this repository. And, the liquidity module hasn't decided to be one of the Cosmos SDK modules. It needs to be approved by Cosmos Hub governance. Once it is 100% decided, then we can start asking SDK devs for their opinions and suggestions about this.

## Installation

### Requirements

| Requirement | Notes            |
| ----------- | ---------------- |
| Go version  | Go1.15 or higher |
| Cosmos-SDK  | v0.42.4          |

### Get Liquidity Module source code 

```bash 
$ git clone https://github.com/tendermint/liquidity.git
$ cd liquidity
$ go mod tidy
```

### Build

```bash 
# You can find the liquidityd binary inside build directory
$ make build 
```

### Install
```bash 
$ make install 
```

## Usage of CLI Commands

### Transactions

`$ liquidityd tx liquidity --help`     

```bash
Liquidity transaction subcommands

Usage:
  liquidityd tx liquidity [flags]
  liquidityd tx liquidity [command]

Available Commands:
  create-pool Create liquidity pool and deposit coins
  deposit     Deposit coins to a liquidity pool
  swap        Swap offer coin with demand coin from the liquidity pool with the given order price
  withdraw    Withdraw pool coin from the specified liquidity pool
```

### Queries

`$ liquidityd query liquidity --help`

```bash
Querying commands for the liquidity module

Usage:
  liquidityd query liquidity [flags]
  liquidityd query liquidity [command]

Available Commands:

>   batch       Query details of a liquidity pool batch

Reviewer 2: If this module is not targeting to be one of the Cosmos SDK modules, then I think it would be fine; however, to follow convention with other Cosmos SDK modules, we should stay with Query.

Examples: 
- https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/master/x/staking/client/cli/query.go#L21
- https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/master/x/gov/client/cli/query.go#L50
- https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/master/x/distribution/client/cli/query.go#L21

>   deposit     Query the deposit messages on the liquidity pool batch

Reviewer 2: All commands except for creating liquidity pool are implemented to execute on the batch.

  deposits    Query all deposit messages of the liquidity pool batch
  params      Query the values set as liquidity parameters
  pool        Query details of a liquidity pool
  pools       Query for all liquidity pools

>   swap        Query for the swap message on the batch of the liquidity pool specified pool-id and msg-index

Reviewer 2: I think it is a matter of whether or not this description will be helpful for those who use the command.
Batch-style execution should be unfamiliar for those who only have experiences with other Cosmos SDK based projects. In that sense, having `liquidity pool batch` in description may provide a bit of context and make them wonder to dig deeper. What do you think? @dongsam

>   swap        Query for the swap message on the batch of the liquidity pool specified pool-id and msg-index

Reviewer: I know @dongsam is helping solve the Gravity DEX competition challenges this week (way to go!!) so we likely won't get consensus right away, but if all commands (except create pool) are executed on the batch, I think we can omit.

>   swap        Query for the swap message on the batch of the liquidity pool specified pool-id and msg-index

Reviewer: I'll stop providing detailed feedback here in the README and we can use the CLI as the one source of truth when all edits are confirmed. Moving in here what we think is useful

  swaps       Query all swap messages in the liquidity pool batch

>   withdraw    Query the withdraw messages in the liquidity pool batch

Reviewer 2: When you query a single withdraw message with the pool-id , I think we should go with `the withdraw message`. 
```shell
$ liquidityd query liquidity withdraw [pool-id] [msg-index]
```

>   withdraw    Query the withdraw messages in the liquidity pool batch

Reviewer: I like it @kogisin 
however, I am going to defer other edit suggestions to the README and we'll turn to the cli itself as the one true source for the command line content in this README
